Fleet Server / Elastic Agent 9.0.6 and 9.1.3 release notes (#2724)
elastic/docs-content: release-notes/fleet-elastic-agent/index.md

% ### Fixes [fleet-elastic-agent-next-fixes]
% *

## 9.1.3 [fleet-elastic-agent-9.1.3-release-notes]

### Features and enhancements [fleet-elastic-agent-9.1.3-features-enhancements]

**Elastic Agent**

> * Adjust the timeout for Elastic Defend check command. [#9329](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9329) [#9521](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9521) [#9522](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9522) [#9545](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9545) [#9213](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9213)

Reviewer: Why not use the pull subs in this PR?

Author: I used the new automation from https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent-changelog-tool/pull/213 to generate/format the list items. That automation will not use the subs because it will not be aware of what subs are available in each repo.

> * Adjust the timeout for Elastic Defend check command. [#9329](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9329) [#9521](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9521) [#9522](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9522) [#9545](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9545) [#9213](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9213)

Author: ```suggestion
* Adjust the timeout for Elastic Defend check command. [#9213](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9213)
```

* Update OTel components to v0.130.0. [#9329](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9329) [#9521](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9521) [#9522](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9522) [#9545](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9545) [#9362](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9362)

### Fixes [fleet-elastic-agent-9.1.3-fixes]

**Elastic Agent**

* Upgrade to Go 1.24.6. [#9287](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9287)
* On Windows, retry saving the Agent information file to disk. [#9224](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9224) [#5862](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/issues/5862)

>   Saving the Agent information file involves renaming/moving a file to its final destination. However, on Windows, it is sometimes not possible to rename/move a file to its destination file because the destination file is locked by another process (e.g. antivirus software). For such situations, we now retry the save operation on Windows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Saving the Agent information file involves renaming/moving a file to its final destination. However, on Windows, it is sometimes not possible to rename/move a file to its destination file because the destination file is locked by another process (for example, an antivirus software). In such cases, we now retry the save operation on Windows.
```

* Correct hints annotations parsing to resolve only `${kubernetes.*}` placeholders instead of resolving all `${...}` patterns. [#9307](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9307)
* Treat exit code 28 from Endpoint binary as non-fatal. [#9320](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9320)
* Fixed jitter backoff strategy reset. [#9342](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9342) [#8864](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/issues/8864)

> * Fix Docker container failing to start with no matching vars: ${env.ELASTICSEARCH_API_KEY:} and similar errors by restoring support for `:` to set default values. [#9451](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9451) [#9328](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/issues/9328)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fix Docker container failing to start with `no matching vars: ${env.ELASTICSEARCH_API_KEY:}` and similar errors by restoring support for `:` to set default values. [#9451](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9451) [#9328](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/issues/9328)
```

> * Fix deb upgrade by stopping elastic-agent service before stopping endpoint. [#9462](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9462)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fix deb upgrade by stopping `elastic-agent` service before stopping endpoint. [#9462](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9462)
```

* Enable dead code elimination. [#4784]({{fleet-server-pull}}4784)
* Include the base error for JSON decode error responses. [#5069]({{fleet-server-pull}}5069)

## 9.0.6 [fleet-elastic-agent-9.0.6-release-notes]

### Features and enhancements [fleet-elastic-agent-9.0.6-features-enhancements]

**Elastic Agent**

> * Adjust the timeout for Elastic Defend check command. [#9523](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9523) [#9524](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9524) [#9542](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9542) [#9213](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9213)

Reviewer 2: Only elastic/elastic-agent#9213 should be listed.

Author: ```suggestion
* Adjust the timeout for Elastic Defend check command. [#9213](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9213)
```

### Fixes [fleet-elastic-agent-9.0.6-fixes]

**Elastic Agent**

> * Upgrade to Go 1.24.6. [#9287](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9287)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Upgrade Go version to 1.24.6. [#9287](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9287)
```

* On Windows, retry saving the Agent information file to disk. [#9224](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9224) [#5862](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/issues/5862)

>   Saving the Agent information file involves renaming/moving a file to its final destination. However, on Windows, it is sometimes not possible to rename/move a file to its destination file because the destination file is locked by another process (e.g. antivirus software). For such situations, we now retry the save operation on Windows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Saving the Agent information file involves renaming/moving a file to its final destination. However, on Windows, it is sometimes not possible to rename/move a file to its destination file because the destination file is locked by another process (for example, an antivirus software). In such cases, we now retry the save operation on Windows.
```

* Correct hints annotations parsing to resolve only `${kubernetes.*}` placeholders instead of resolving all `${...}` patterns. [#9307](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9307)
* Treat exit code 28 from Endpoint binary as non-fatal. [#9320](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9320)
* Fixed jitter backoff strategy reset. [#9342](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9342) [#8864](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/issues/8864)

> * Fix Docker container failing to start with no matching vars: ${env.ELASTICSEARCH_API_KEY:} and similar errors by restoring support for `:` to set default values. [#9451](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9451) [#9328](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/issues/9328)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fix Docker container failing to start with `no matching vars: ${env.ELASTICSEARCH_API_KEY:}` and similar errors by restoring support for `:` to set default values. [#9451](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9451) [#9328](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/issues/9328)
```

> * Fix deb upgrade by stopping elastic-agent service before upgrading. [#9462](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9462)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fix deb upgrade by stopping `elastic-agent` service before upgrading. [#9462](https://github.com/elastic/elastic-agent/pull/9462)
```
